Hello everybody and welcome to the grabbing System Overview.
In this lecture we're going to outline the end results having an idea of what we're heading for over
the next couple of lectures.
Think of the grabber system as being a mini series that we've broken down cut and it's going to be maybe
three or four lectures long in order to complete it.
Now what we're going to do is I'm going to challenge you to think about how it may be done.
I know you don't have all the resources that unreal can offer but maybe just stepping outside yourself
and thinking even if you don't know the right name.
How would I possibly implement this and thinking critically about it.
And now I'll outline afterwards how we'll be doing it in this particular section.
Okay so over and unreal what we want to be able to do is eventually we'll be walking into this.
It will open and what we try and get to the door the door's gonna shut on us.
We know what kind of dynamic we're going for but we need to be able to pick up another object in the
scene and place it there an appropriate object which will hold the door open instead so we can then
walk out.
Obviously that will also leave the door open pretty useful.
So the first thing I'm going to do just so we've got something in our scene is I'll add let's say this
cone it's going to be a magical cone on the floor that we have to interact with.
You don't have to pick it up somehow and then transfer it to over here.
And then that will then interact with the collision volume when that interacts with the collision volume
and perhaps if we have a couple of objects.
So if this is a pressure pad we're probably going for white which means that perhaps you have to move
a couple of things over there to equal the body weight of your character and then the door will open
and we will be able to leave.
Okay.
So I'd like you to write down your ideas how you might go about this even if you don't know the exact
terminology that you would use in unreal.
Just write down how you'd go about thinking critically about how the player can interact with the world
how the object that you're picking up how the player can interact with that how that object can interact
with the collision volume and ultimately how it's going to trigger the door's open.
We're going to have a threshold there obviously of white.
Now use the knowledge you have already.
It doesn't matter if you have a deep knowledge or a shallow knowledge you'll be able to add value here.
The important thing is that you're thinking about it critically rather than just plowing forward with
one idea.
Always brainstorm different ways of doing something because then you end up with multiple solutions
perhaps for further puzzles in the game as well.
Now think about whether you would use a component or inheritance two different ways of doing it.
Here's a hint either could work.
Just think about the benefits of one over the other and see what you come up with.
How may you know what to grab.
So obviously if we've got a load of objects in a scene our scene currently is really sparse but how
are we going to make sure that the player grabs the right things.
Perhaps you can have everything grab a ball in your game perhaps only certain things would be.
Obviously one would make the play through a lot easier and a lot more clearer as to what you're supposed
to be doing.
More importantly than anything I want you to be open and just think about what's going on it's interesting
to see your thought processes when you go ahead and share this in the discussions.
Think about what game objects.
Would you be working with.
Is it a has a or is a relationship to the player.
Now share your ideas for discussion is always great seeing the sea of ideas in facts.
In fact what you can do as part of your research is go and have a look what other people have suggested
already over on the forum.
So that's one way of approaching this.
So go ahead pulls a video now and give that a go Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go ahead and start going through how we're going to implement this.
Okay so we want to be able to lift the cone or indeed you may have put another object in your scene
that's absolutely fine.
Eventually at the very end I'm going to be lifting up a gargoyle and there will be a another gargoyle
that we can replace it with.
So we're just going to interact with one single object in the world.
We will add a grabber component to the player.
Now the issue of course is the player as a temporary actor that appears on play.
So be interesting on how we approach this and how we're able to go ahead and attach a component to something
that doesn't exist before you press play.
Now the game mode itself which can be found in the project's settings.
That's what goes ahead and sets which default porn to use and currently we'll go have a look at it in
a moment before we move on.
You cannot change what's there.
However what we can do is create a default porn and game mode blueprints and then we will be able to
change that to a specific porn that we've created which gives us control.
And of course we'll be able to specify our modified default porn with the grab a component attached
to it.
So let's just have a look at the game mode and the default porn that is currently set over in um real
Okay so over in Unreal if we go to our project settings now I already have the tab at the top there
I've left it there for quite some time.
If yours isn't there you can get there through edit project settings.
Okay so in the project settings if we go to maps and modes we've been here before we have set a default
game map before in fact both of these can actually be the entry level because we only have one level
in our game anyway it makes sense to have the editor start up in that as well.
And then if we look further up see here we've got the default game mode currently it sets a game mode
base and what we'll be able to do is and our own blueprints in here that we can go ahead and use that
will then make this able to be changed to under the selected game mode we've currently got the default
porn class as the default porn and we cannot change that at the moment but once we've made a blueprint
version of the game mode we'll be able to change that to our specific porn and we'll dive over into
the beginnings of that in the next lecture.
But before we do I'd like to go over a little more about what game mode actually is.
So it can be anything from what inventory items a player starts with how many lives are available any
time limits that the player has score needed to end the game etc. These all belong to game mode.
So these are all parameters and rules for the game as a whole.
Now this is not where you would store the players current lives but perhaps your max lives available
or your starting lives as an example.
Especially the win condition that's always a good one isn't that you want to be able to win your game
now.
Unreal goes into this in a lot more detail so there's the link down there and over in the resources
as well.
This is something that you can read and absorb on your own time it's kind of a challenge to go along
with this lecture is to just go through game mode and make sure you've got a good broad understanding
not a deep understanding but at the moment a broad understanding about what the game mode does.
That's it for this lecture and I'll see you all in the next one.